# Reflections - Julie
I took this elective course because I have an interest in game development and XR, and I’ve had a lot of fun during it. I had a bit of prior knowledge of Unity from GMD1 last semester, which was very useful. At the same time, we were also working on our bachelor project, which was also in VR, and I feel this worked in our favour both ways. Sometimes we needed knowledge for our bachelor project that we had learned in XRD1, and other times we needed knowledge for XRD1 that we had learned while working on the bachelor project. This was especially true because the bachelor project used a head-mounted display (HMD), which we had to get working early in the semester. We didn’t work with an HMD in XRD1 until mid-semester, so because of this we already knew how to connect the headset and work with the simulator.

I know my group members very well, as I’ve worked with them on many assignments and projects during my education. I trust them, and I’m not afraid to voice my opinion. This is important to me, since I’m a bit of a people pleaser and can be shy and quiet around people I don’t know well.

For the first project, the Augmented Reality (AR) project, I didn’t have a strong preference for what the project should be. Because of that, it made sense to take a project from the Research and Development department, so we wouldn’t spend too much time coming up with an idea, and the rest of the group felt the same way. However, the project was not very defined, and we didn’t have much to go off. I wish we had been given a bit more direction, as our solution ended up feeling somewhat generic. We worked a lot collaboratively during this project, since we were all new to working with XR and the Interaction Toolkit framework. During the project, I worked on the water, getting the texture to work and making it rise and fall. The rise and fall part was fairly simple, as it was just a slider controlling the Y-value of the water plane. I also worked closely with Rune on clicking a point and making a popup appear with information text. For this task, we had to work with raycasting to check if the point object was in the direction that was clicked, while also making sure the table wouldn’t move when clicking on the point.

For the HMD project, we talked about making a puzzle game or some kind of escape room. If I remember correctly, Simon was especially interested in multiplayer and using the interactive table. I thought the idea of asynchronous multiplayer sounded unique and fun, and the rest of the group seemed to agree. I was immediately reminded of the game *Operation Tango*, where one player is a spy walking around, while the other is a hacker guiding and helping them, and our project took heavy inspiration from that. I feel I had a big impact on designing the flow of the game, while still taking everyone’s wishes into account. At this point, I was a bit worried that we were too ambitious and wouldn’t have enough time, and that the project would end up half-finished. I remember spending a lot of time on the starting area, finding assets and importing them into Unity, and in hindsight I probably got a bit carried away and spent too much time on that. We also ran into the problem that one of the assets was too big for GitHub, so we had to use their large file system, which was a bit tricky to get working. However, now I have that knowledge if I need it in the future. I also worked on the door labyrinth, where doors of a specific colour would open while all other doors closed. It was fairly simple, but I enjoyed working on it.

Overall, I’m pretty satisfied with how the project turned out, and it was exciting to see people at the expo playing it and having fun with it. If anything, I think we could have included more plot or story for better immersion, but given the scope of the project, we decided it was better to focus on implementing fun features.

I’ve gained a lot of knowledge about Unity and XR development during this course. I hope I get the chance to use it more in the future, if not professionally then at least for hobby projects.
